"The following program is being brought to you on the Voice America Variety Channel.
For more information about our network and to check our additional show hosts and topics
of interest, please visit VoiceAmericaVariety.com.
The Voice America Talk Radio Network is the worldwide leader in live internet talk radio.
Visit VoiceAmerica.com.
The views and ideas expressed on the following program are strictly those of the host or
guest and do not necessarily reflect the views and ideas held by the Voice America Talk Radio
Network, its staff and management."
Welcome to the Sharon Kleiner Hour.
Health, environment and the power of water.
What you hear in the next hour could very well save your life.
Now here's your host, Sharon Kleiner.
I want to invite you to listen to the Sharon Kleiner Hour.
The Power of Water.
I'm Sharon Kleiner.
For many years I have been studying, for over 30 years, water, water, water.
But I chose to study not only the water that we're living with on the surface of the earth,
below the surface of the earth and around our planet, but also the water vapor, that
humidity you've heard about, water vapor, the greenhouse gas effects with water vapor.
The water vapor from the moment you were born became your most important influence of your
life.
It's where you live and the air you're breathing.
That became a focus.
Without water on earth, there would be no water vapor, humidity for you to stay alive,
all of us.
These are the symptoms of your life, individually.
The moment you were born in that delivery room, you opened your eyes.
There are no two eyes alike, no two fingerprints alike, and more.
We're all different.
We're all dehydrating differently.
So that water vapor in the air is so influential.
Water on the earth, water vapor, and what is happening with our cloud system.
We've been talking about this for so long.
The one influence I'm trying to express here throughout the world, listening on Voice America
and our Apple iTunes and our syndications, is let's get together and learn more about
the education that we're all providing.
All of us, each one of us, participate on the earth lasting forever.
But we can't do it without water on the surface, fresh water, and water vapor, and that cloud
system, and then influence each other and those aquifers.
Example, here in America, I'm an American, here in the United States of America, I'm
coming to you from Oregon.
I'm in southern Oregon in the Rogue River Valley, sitting here on the famous Rogue River
and the most beautiful rivers of the world and the mountains that are gorgeous with tall
trees and green and gorgeous and on water.
We're even having challenges with water.
The water is around us, but we're having challenges.
Now in America, there's no place in the world that uses more water a day than in the Americans.
After showering, using the bathroom and brushing our teeth, and having one cup of coffee or
tea, this typically takes 30 gallons of water.
Now I'm used to doing that, and many people in America and throughout the world are used
to showering, bathing, and brushing their teeth, having a cup of coffee or tea, and
using the facilities of the bathroom, and they can be using over 30 gallons of water
right there.
After doing dishes with a dishwasher, 12 gallons per load, running a washing machine, 43 gallons
of water per load, watering your lawn, which here in America we love our green lawns, 10
gallons per minute.
By the time we go to bed, the average American is using 150 gallons of water a day.
So therefore, when I say the concerns I have about fresh water is serious, look what's
happening in China.
They have 118 rivers polluted, the black carbon particle in the air is polluting the waters,
the water vapor they're breathing, and all of us around the world, we can go indoors
with insulated windows and walls and have a pollution problem in America because we
have insulated windows and walls and forced air heating and cooling.
The subject matter has been coming up more and more thanks to people out there like ourselves
and others that are really promoting this throughout the world.
Water is overtaking oil as our scarcest natural resource in the world says, Stephen Solomon,
and we've had Stephen Solomon on here.
He's the author of a book called Water, the Epic Struggle for Wealth, Power, and Civilization.
Even we're going to find in the United States as well, that in the United States by 2030,
we could be short 40% of the water we require.
Other books are out, Water Wars.
War has been going on around water since the beginning of time.
Have you ever noticed that the cities and the communities and the villages are surrounded
by water?
They go to water.
At one point in 2001, the New York Times featured a full front page story on water scarcity.
This was back in 2001.
That's going to be a water scarcity and that in Texas we'll have a water scarcity.
Even though oil has made them rich, the problem is they're not going to have the oil.
The liquid gold for Texas and other places in the world is going to be the water.
The water that surrounds us, although always has been recognized to everyone all over the
world, has been the source of life.
What's going to happen when you don't have it?
Will you go steal it from your neighbor?
Will you go take it from the river coming from another state?
The potential of this is very concerning, but we can all do something about it together.
There's a book out there called Water Wars that you need to read about.
There's an individual who wrote it and I'm going to spell it.
Vandana Shiva, it's an excellent book on water wars.
We have a book that we had Dr. Neil Grigg on here, Water Finance.
Water will become the most expensive part of your life in time unless we begin to study
it more and more and what we can do with it.
I can't emphasize it more and that's what this show has been about.
Today I have an exciting guest.
I was really looking forward to having him on for you to learn more about water and your
life and your organisms and how you function as a body.
We're functioning on 80% water and those cells, up to 50 trillion of them in your body, must
function with you drinking water every day and how you eat and how you conduct your life
and what you choose in your life.
His name is Dr. Ray Peat.
His last name is P-E-A-T, PhD.
He comes from Eugene, Oregon.
The topic today is going to be aging, nutrition, and hormones.
We'll be talking a lot about water.
We'll listen to our sponsor, Biologic Aqua Research's product, Nature's Tears I Missed.
Nature's Tears I Missed is a technology to supplement the tear film of the surface of
your eye.
Did you know that the surface of your eye is 98% water and you have an aqueous middle
layer in your tear film?
The doctors were never able to really discuss the tear film until there became a product
to compare it to.
Nature's Tears I Missed is that 100% natural water to supplement for dry eye.
We'll listen to our sponsor and we'll be right back with Dr. Peat.
Ask the experts.
Call toll free right now.
1-866-472-5787.
Hello.
And ask our all-star team to answer your questions.
That's 1-866-472-5787.
Thank you for calling.
VoiceAmerica.com.
Discover the secret of Nature's Tears I Missed, an entirely different approach to eye care
without eye drops.
When your tear film is dry, your eyes feel dry.
Nature's Tears I Missed naturally supplements the tear film with Biologic Aqua absolute
premium standard grade of pure all-natural water.
Nature's Tears I Missed, just a mist.
All natural, safe, convenient, no preservatives.
Nature's Tears I Missed can be purchased nationwide at selected eye care professionals and drug
stores near you.
News, opinions.
Your voice counts.
Call toll free 1-866-472-5787.
1-866-472-5787.
VoiceAmerica.com.
[Music]
You're listening to the Sharon Kleiner Hour.
I'm Dr. Peat.
Are you with us?
Yes, I am.
Thank you for joining us.
I know how busy you've been and I've been really looking forward to this.
Our listeners around the world, I would like them to get to know who you are.
You have a Ph.D. in biology and it's from the University of Oregon.
You're specializing in physiology.
You've taught at many schools and you've continued your research, I could see, since way back
in the 70s.
You may have started earlier.
I want the audience to know you've continued in research a long time with your mission
here to understand aging, nutrition, hormones and more.
You can tell the audience what your focus has been for so long.
I didn't actually start professional biology study until 1968 at the university.
I studied there for four years in physiology and biochemistry.
Before that, around 1950, I had heard about Albert St. Georgie and the lectures he went
around the country doing demonstrations of living tissue and the state of water inside
muscles for example.
He could show that the condition of the water as it affected molecules changed instantaneously
when a muscle was stimulated or when a nerve was activated.
I looked around to see who else was working on that kind of thing and it was utterly neglected
by the professional biologists.
He happened to have got interested in this line of thinking many years earlier, got his
Nobel Prize working on vitamin C, but his real interest was in how the state of water
changes between life and death and different states of energy production.
I had that in mind all through the 60s and I taught a biology course in Ohio at a little
college and while I was working there, Linus Pauling did some research that lined up with
Albert St. Georgie and he proposed that anesthetics work by altering the state of water in cells.
I looked around again and saw that the chemical community was ignoring Linus Pauling even
though he had the Nobel Prize and these two people were outstanding for their interest
in how water lets organisms work.
For several years, I decided that despite the established academic science culture lacking
any interest in what I wanted to study, I had enough experience with universities to
go through and use their instruments to do the research I wanted without getting indoctrinated
by their belief that everything is governed by genes, molecules, membranes and so on.
Why do you think they left so much behind?
Because as you've known by far greater than I, more studies that you've done is so far
back in the 1500s, 1800s and more, they really were studying all of this.
Like Lawrence Henderson who had a lot of research on water and the fitness of the environment
and these doctors.
You have a doctor, Gilbert Ling here, a Ph.D. that I've read here that you've discussed.
Why do you think they left all that study behind?
It was a philosophical doctrine that took over.
It related to the mainline medicine.
Allopathic medicine had its idea of what an organism is and the gene people were representing
almost a religious line of thinking that hated to admit that organisms were as complicated
as they are.
They were imposing this system of beliefs all through science.
There's a book by someone that I knew in the 1960s called Cold War in Biology that explains
how there was a doctrinaire political campaign going on all through the universities of America
to change the thinking and direct thoughts to genetic engineering to make it an industrial,
manageable concept of how organisms work.
The other people were going directly to the organisms, seeing what happens.
The mainline thinking wanted to go from factories to doctors to what they could sell.
They were putting the marketing department first.
I noticed that in one of your descriptions and I totally agree with you on that, doctor.
I've noticed that when I have been out there for so long doing what I do with my research
and then I took a product to market, water, I was the first person to do what I did with
water.
I always discuss the benefit and the education behind it all and the marketing will come
with it if you do that correctly to get it better understood why the product has a benefit.
You're right.
A lot of people go to the market selling the product and forgetting what the product is
benefiting to do and more.
You're right.
I've gotten into maybe the greed, let's call it, to be fair to them.
I'll come up with another side of it, but the greed of getting it out there, getting
it understood that this will sell quicker, this will get a patent quicker maybe if they
go about it that direction.
To be fair to everyone, I always say, "Well, the word patent, Dr. Peat, came up long ago
and if you could get a patent on it and for so long they didn't think you could get a
patent on the description of water."
Now they know they can.
I did it.
But the thing is, when I first launched a product for the skin, because I was so convinced
that what you're saying is the skin is dehydrating.
The skin on the outside of the body needs hydration, water.
Then they said when I was looking for capital, they'd say, "Well, can it be patented?"
I'm sitting there just fuming.
I learned, to be fair, everything in marketing, they want it to be patented.
Then when I decided to do one, I was asked to do one for the eyes because the dehydrated
eyes at the service in the tear film, I studied it.
Then we decided, "Let's go for a patent there," and we've been patented, almost approved all
over the world with a description of water.
When you look back on it, Dr. Peat, do you think that's why they left the water behind?
Because water is the primary reason we're alive and dehydration is the word that you
very seldom hear about until all of a sudden lately.
Have you noticed, Dr., you're hearing the word dehydration quite commonly lately, not
just because your temperature is rising.
You're hearing the word dehydration.
I think it's a matter of being able to control products.
When I took my first course in muscle physiology, water was absolutely neglected.
The membrane was there to keep the water inside and the enzymes caused reactions, but the
way the water handled, controlled the chemical reactions was absolutely neglected and the
professors didn't want to talk about it.
In electron microscopy, my professor had his model of how the little parts inside the cell
worked and the spaces were so narrow that only a few layers of water would fit between
the molecules, but he absolutely didn't want to talk about what was in those spaces.
But a professor at the University of Washington, Gerald Pollack, is demonstrating that he has
videos available on the Internet that are just amazing.
He shows that the effect of a surface organizes water and causes water to be in control of
things dissolved in it at a tremendous distance out from the surface, which is vastly greater
than the areas involved inside the cell.
So when you look back at what these professors were doing, they were basically being crazy
to ignore the great power of the water inside the cell when Gerald Pollack is demonstrating
that it extends out so you can see it in a beaker or in a glass tube.
To be fair, because of the medical team I've put together throughout the years, there are
physicians and surgeons in all backgrounds, nature paths and more, PhDs, until they have
something to compare to, they're all afraid to discuss it, the nature of what it is.
Now you could answer that better than I.
There is a nature to the water, there is a nature to its function, and the dehydration
effect from birth.
What do you think to analyze that, because it's been causing a lot of problems that
they don't want to go to the nature of that molecule in the cell.
In fact, I had a Nobel Prize winner on here, Doctor, and he said, "Sharon, it took me
25 years, millions of dollars, and no end of doctors to prove there is water there in
that cell."
It didn't go anywhere.
Now there's water.
Doctor, can you imagine how far we've come in research and they still don't want to admit
that we're made up of water and when the research goes in to study all of these diseases and
symptoms, they don't go after the dehydration and the water first.
I think they should.
I'm committed to that statement.
When I was a little kid, I would ask people why the water was blue, and they would say
it was the sky reflecting in it.
I was at Crater Lake on a cloudy day when the sky was absolutely gray and the lake was
just as blue as ever.
The whole culture, including Science Magazine, the journal of the American Association for
the Advancement of Science, they were as recently as the 1970s publishing articles claiming
that basically it was the sky, the way light was interacting with the water.
But Linus Pauling, way back in one of his textbooks, said in the properties of water,
it's a blue substance.
The fact that you can put water in a bucket and it's blue, it's simply obvious to the
eye, but science had this insane need to abstract things, to say water basically isn't there.
It has only these things that we are willing to assign it.
That is the common sense.
With your background, as educated as you are and as much as you've learned with your research
and more and publications to write now, there's common sense.
I've been very lucky.
I've had the head of stem cell transplant research from Harvard on here.
She agrees, water.
I've had the head of nutrition research from Harvard and he said water and nutrition.
You with your background have been pounding the pavement for so long.
Water and the individualities of what is happening to the body and its water content in its cells
and relationships to how it's living.
I've gone after the air we're living in because I found that they ignored the water vapor
too, doctor.
You hear the word humidity, but water vapor, greenhouse gas go together.
Carbon dioxide much later, but there's an influence with the body water, the water vapor,
the cloud system, the water on the surface of our earth plus what's in the aquifer all
over the world.
That's a relationship we all have.
Now tell us, what is magnet, what you're teaching us?
Magnet is a stabilizer of the whole water system, ground water and air water depend
on the interaction of forests.
Deforestation has been causing a terrible change in the water system.
Exactly, and the water vapor and the cloud system.
Right, right.
We have a part of our team, Dr. Duane Cecil, PhD, who was with NASA for 35 years and NOAA.
He has said the same thing, that this impact, but it can be corrected.
They can go back in and you know, doctor, I truly believe that I could be wrong and
you know better than I.
I'm going to give you an example.
People are not educated about it.
When we're talking water, we're talking about the obvious.
There's the puddle, there's the lake, there's the stream, there's the river.
We've got to be careful with the irrigation water.
They're hearing always the same thing.
They're never hearing that they're water, that they're made up of water and the impact
on them with the water vapor and the cloud system, the fresh water on the surface.
People have to be impacted personally to feel what is happening to them.
The education has not been what you just said today.
The walking human being is water and we need to look at the symptoms of their life individually
as being related to the water in them and the water around them.
They're not being educated about that, doctor.
Part of the water system is the trunk of trees.
The wood is moist and there are channels so that the moisture from inside the tree comes
out into the leaves.
When the roots are slightly deprived of water, the tree can live by moving water from inside
its trunk.
The bigger the trunk is, the greater the reservoir of available water to put back into the air.
If you cut down trees that are five or six feet in diameter and replace them with a forest
of trees that are six or eight inches in diameter, they are unstable as regulators of atmospheric
water because there's just a very tiny reservoir available to them.
So when the humidity goes down in the air, they aren't able to replenish it from these
huge tanks of water in their trunks.
And what's going on below their root system into the base of the earth below the soil.
Something just came to my mind as you were talking.
When our forest environmentalists were very concerned about the forest and not the cutting
at all, but they also didn't want to have the dead trees cut or the dead brush, which
brought in a lot of insects and problems.
If I put you in a spot, don't let me do that with this question, but what happens to the
healthy forest when you have dead trees around it, around the forest and in the forest and
the brush and the insects?
What would that do to dehydration of the trees?
The insects come in after the forest is dying, basically, because the immune system of the
tree depends on good nourishment.
And part of the nourishment comes from the rotting old generations.
It's like organic gardening.
You put the residue, the corn stalks, chop them up, let them rot and put them back in
the soil so that the minerals that were taken out of the soil are constantly going back
into the soil.
If you take a forest fire, it will reduce the brush and dead material to ashes, but
the ashes feed the soil and the next generation of trees and keep the cycle going.
But if you haul out the lumber and burn it somewhere else and dump the ashes basically
into the rivers and oceans, you're polluting the rivers and oceans and starving the forest
soils by hauling that tremendous amount of organic mineral residue out of the forests.
You know, when you're talking there for a moment, I was following you with why you chose.
You're so knowledgeable and you've done exactly what is so important to save lives on this
planet as you went to the depths of the origination of what the planet started with.
We started with water vapor, water, fresh water, and then of course all of that ran
down to a low point called an ocean.
And fresh water has an enormous influence on this planet.
As Gene Cernan said when he was on the moon the last time, he's looking back at Earth
and he sees that blue ball of water vapor around Earth, and he said that's God's porch.
And meaningfully, without the water and understanding and better education about water, people will
take it for granted.
And it's like Peter Brabeck, the chairman of Nestle, said, and he's really passionate
about water and the mission for himself, and Water II, Doctor.
He said, too, people don't realize they're pricing it now because people have taken it
so much for granted, Doctor, that it's going to become so much more expensive because they
took it way too for granted.
Water.
Yeah.
Vandana Shiva has some very important videos available on the Internet.
She was trained as a physicist, I think a nuclear physicist, but she realized that nuclear
energy wasn't going to help the health of the planet, that looking at the water economy
was the really important thing.
That's the woman, did you hear me before I started the show?
That's the book I was talking about at the beginning of the show.
Yeah.
She, for many years, has been doing videos and movies, documentaries on the importance
of saving the water resources.
We need to take a break.
This will be our last one.
Don't go anywhere.
Then we're going to come back, and you're going to educate us about what your research
has been finding in the different categories of progesterone and the hormones.
Then we'll get into aging and nutrition because that aging and nutrition go together and the
dehydration effects of the body, as far as I'm concerned.
Don't go anywhere.
I'm really enjoying this.
Thank you so much for being here today.
Well, listen to our sponsor with Nature's Tears Eye Mist with Just a Mist.
Did you know your eyes are 98% water at the surface?
When you're supplementing a dehydration of dry eye, what is dry eye?
It's a lack of water, dehydration of the water at the surface of the eye.
Well, listen to our sponsor with Nature's Tears Eye Mist, and we'll be right back with
Dr. Peat.
Talk, talk, talk.
That's all we do is talk.
If you'd like to talk, call us toll-free right now at 1-866-472-5787.
1-866-472-5787.
That's it.
Discover the secret of Nature's Tears Eye Mist, an entirely different approach to eye
care without eye drops.
When your tear film is dry, your eyes feel dry.
Nature's Tears Eye Mist naturally supplements the tear film with Biologic Aqua Absolute
Premium Standard Grade of pure all-natural water.
Nature's Tears Eye Mist, Just a Mist.
All natural, safe, convenient, no preservatives.
Nature's Tears Eye Mist can be purchased nationwide at selected eye care professionals and drug
stores near you.
Ask the experts.
Call toll-free right now.
1-866-472-5787.
And ask our all-star team to answer your question.
That's 1-866-472-5787.
Thank you for calling.
VoicedAmerica.com.
[music]
You're listening to the Sharon Kleiner Hour, Health, Environment, and the Power of Water.
If you have a question or comment, please direct your email to SharonKleinerHour@yahoo.com.
That's Sharon Kleiner Hour at Yahoo.com.
Now, back to the program.
Dr. Peat, you have spent a lot of time studying progesterone and the hormones, and I've been
reading here about your valuations on the effects of estrogen, radiation stress, and
lack of oxygen, which I believe dehydration causes stress.
Could you explain to us and talk to the audience that they need to be educated about the progesterone
and the hormones, as if they don't really understand how they function?
The organism, the structure is mainly a system of protein molecules, and fat and nucleic
acids, DNA, and those things are in a way peripheral to the basic protein structure.
The protein changes its electrical properties according to the chemical reactions going
on inside, and it can change its acidity or alkalinity according to the metabolism and
what you're eating.
And ordinary, like a sponge or a bowl of Jell-O, any system with a lot of protein in it will
change the way it holds water according to the degree of acidity and alkalinity.
Acidity makes it give up water.
Acidity makes it retain water, and the protein itself is on the acidic side, but it associates
with alkaline metals like sodium, potassium, calcium, and magnesium, and these neutralize
the acidity of the proteins and the metabolism of basically burning sugar in the presence
of oxygen.
That energy is what regulates the balance of acidity and alkalinity, and in turn, it's
the alkalinity essentially that makes the organism retain water.
And edema, where your feet or fingers swell up, that is regulated as a result of bad metabolism
letting your hormones get out of balance, changing the acidity and alkalinity of the
whole organism so that instead of the water staying inside cells where it belongs, it
falls out of cells and collects in your feet and fingers or whatever is downhill under
gravity.
And the hormone that is most responsible for keeping the cells hydrated and functional,
demonstrating the processes that Albert St. George went around the country demonstrating
in lectures with fluorescent lights showing that the muscle would become luminous when
it contracted and dark when it was relaxed.
These changes in the state of water are constantly being regulated mainly by the thyroid hormone
letting us use oxygen to produce energy, and the thyroid maintains the protective hormones
such as progesterone, pregnenolone, testosterone, DHEA, and under stress or injury, some of
the testosterone or DHEA changes in the estrogen which changes the ability to regulate water.
It tends to create the edema state, but the edema reverses the functional state of the
organism momentarily to put it back into a growth condition so that it can renew the
cells.
That's its function.
Once a month, there should be a surge of estrogen in a woman's tissues to prepare her for pregnancy
and lactation, but if the estrogen persists too long, then the water is out of control
throughout the organism and it tends to cause the swelling, headaches, nervous tension,
swollen feet, and so on associated with premenstrual syndrome or pregnancy problems and so on.
Thyroid and progesterone are the most powerful hormones in preserving the proper retention
of water in cells, not too much, not too little.
Now on young people, I've always used this as an example.
The moment the baby left its mother's womb in the pocket of water, we entered in the
air we live in, and that's water vapor humidity and the influences of that from there on.
There's no moisture meter today like they have blood pressure checks yet.
I hope to gosh we can do one someday and decide what is happening by checking that out regularly,
what is happening in the body, and what you have just said is that the individual, how
does an individual know this is all happening?
The aging process is essentially a loss of water.
A baby has an extremely high water content in its tissues, 80 something percent I think,
and a very old person gets down approaching maybe 55 percent, and the function decreases
along with the water so that a baby has an extremely high metabolic rate and ability
to heal tissues.
At puberty, the resistance, health, vitality, everything is at a maximum, and after that
everything tends to go downhill.
The ability to heal gradually decreases with aging, but all along the water content of
the tissue right from conception to death, it's a decreasing percentage of water inside
every cell.
We've talked about water, and you've got to know a lot to help our listeners understand.
We were talking about the acidity of the body and the alkaline that is so important.
Tell us about what you've been learning about nutrition.
Here in America, all over the world, their nutrition habits were based on founders of
taste.
What is to you the best nutrition to help retain the water, to detoxify the body, and
keep a real gradual dehydration of the body that's healthy so the person will not age
too quickly and be healthier?
Tell us some of it.
What did you learn about nutrition?
There were some studies about 20 or 30 years ago in which if you feed the animal or even
the tissue in a dish, if you feed it saturated fats such as coconut oil, the cells of the
skin grow in an orderly way, retaining their moisture, keeping the skin plump, firm, and
resilient.
If you feed them polyunsaturated fats, they mature very quickly as if under the influence
of a vitamin A deficiency or estrogen excess.
They're more susceptible to sun damage.
The cells grow slowly and in irregular columns and the skin overall is thinner.
So the sun damage and too much polyunsaturated fat in the diet makes the skin age and become
disorganized prematurely.
That got me interested in coconut oil and about 20 years ago I started writing about
the biological effects of increasing...
What about coconut water?
I studied it a little bit too.
It's a great source of minerals and if it's fresh, it has very good sugar and the sugar
oxidizes, produces carbon dioxide and the carbon dioxide is the main power in regulating
the alkalinity of cells.
That's what moves minerals in and out of cells and through your kidneys and so on.
The fruit, orange juice is an ideal source of carbohydrate because it has its own minerals
with it, the same as coconut water.
Coconut is a good food, cheese because of the high minerals.
You're not anti-dairy.
Your research hasn't proven anything about being anti-dairy.
No, because of the high value of the calcium content and the low ratio of phosphate to
calcium because phosphate is an age accelerating thing.
So a diet high in meat and nuts for example has a serious excess of phosphate and a deficiency
of calcium.
Calcium is one of the best things for stimulating the rate of metabolism and preventing obesity.
People who drink milk regularly are a very slim population in proportion to the amount
of calories they consume.
And there have been a couple of studies in which dementia is much higher in populations
that don't drink any milk.
Now I also want to ask you about aging eyes, infant eyes, and you've done a lot of research
on that and the lungs.
Tell us about what you were learning about eyes because that's been a field I've been
involved with now for ten years with research about the eyes and what's happening with the
environment and exposures with the environment today.
I especially got interested in how the transparency of the cornea, lens, and vitreous humor, how
that works.
When I was in Mexico at Lake Pátzcuaro, the fish there are transparent, at least they
used to be.
I think pollution is changing it.
But in the market they would pile up fish that were the size of small trouts and even
some eight inches long, others about the size of a cigar.
You could read a magazine cover right through the fish, absolute transparency.
That got me interested in the issue of what makes the sclera, the cornea, or the lens
able to be transparent even though it has relatively little water.
It's a very tough, hard, rubbery tissue.
The state of the water is so organized and you have to think about Gerald Pollack's research
to think about what organization can mean to water.
The molecules are lined up such that the quantum energy is organized as it moves through.
There's another very important website, May Wan Ho, her last name is just Ho, called I
think it's ISIS, Institute for Science.
She writes about the coherence of organisms involving this quantum level organization
of water molecules.
She has illustrations of the color continuity right through a whole organism showing that
the light has to be organized by the organism as a whole, not by individual random atoms.
In the lens and the cornea, what this means is that if, for example, you have too much
inflammation, too much estrogen, too much ultraviolet radiation, anything that excites
the tissue too much, it lets the water get disorganized.
The water content increases just the way edema causes water to accumulate in your feet or
fingers where it shouldn't be.
The water accumulates in a loose form and that's what causes the opacity of a cataract.
It's actually too much water because it's out of control and disorganized.
Do you think that's because of the dehydration of the atmospheric influence of the eye, being
dehydrating too quickly?
We've been learning that if there's too much water, it's because the water is dehydrating
too quickly.
The proteins are dehydrating.
They are losing the control of the water.
The living substance has lost its water and the water is accumulating basically in random
places.
You can help me with this one.
I've been studying that if the body is swelling, it's trying to hold back on its loss of water.
It's dehydrating too quickly.
As you said, the eyes and the brain are connected in the womb at the same time.
The brain being an estimated 80% water and the eyes at the surface and the tear film
aqueous layer about 98% water.
If it's overreacting, the water is dehydrating too quickly.
And then with the carbohydrates that we're talking about and fats in the food, the cells
are getting...
I'm very blunt about this.
The toxin in the cell is getting too heated and you can correct me and I call that almost
a manure.
It cannot expel.
It cannot detoxify.
It's heating up.
Now you can correct me or help me with that.
The age pigment is involved.
That's what you see accumulating in spots on old people's skin.
But it starts anytime the tissue isn't getting enough oxygen to retain its water the way
it should.
The polyunsaturated fats become oxidized and form clumps of this dark orange or brown or
black pigment.
And this wastes oxygen and creates a vicious circle.
So it's definitely junk accumulating in cells.
But with enough energy, progesterone and thyroid, for example, can energize the cell enough
to reverse that age pigment.
But it helps greatly if you use things like milk, orange juice, coconut water and coconut
oil are good.
Not definitely not the thing...
We're out of time but I need to ask you.
The first thing that came to my mind just now is you're living in Eugene, Oregon where
the University of Oregon football team with Chip Kelly was well-known in the past few
years that he really worked with his team on the science of health as a behavior and
nutrition and sleep and attitude.
Were you hired by him?
No.
Because everything you're saying is exactly what everybody...
I call it the health Olympics, doctor.
We used to get out of bed every day and be in the health Olympics.
But what would you like to say to the audience?
You definitely have done so much.
We've only got about half a minute left.
What would you like to say to the audience worldwide on what you think you're going to
be learning?
There's so much on the Internet.
If you look at websites like Vandana Shiva and Gerald Pollack and Martin Chaplin has
a great water website, many pages of very detailed information.
You can get information that your doctor won't know for a hundred years.
And then go to yours.
It's www.RayPeat.com.
While we're out of time, I enjoyed it and I know the world out there did too, Dr. Peat.
I hope I can have you back on someday because in the future when you have a moment because
there's so much more that I could have had you discuss today.
But we really did learn a lot.
I thank you so much for all you've done, your commitment and don't back off of the medical
field.
I know they're coming.
Okay, thank you.
Thank you.
You have a nice day.
Bye.
Well, we're out of time and I have to close.
But I want to thank Pauli Featherton for getting Dr. Ray Peat.
I think that's always going to be one of our most exciting educational shows.
I know that you should embrace your life.
You're in the Health Olympics and embrace somebody else's.
The earth is whispering to us every moment of the day.
Do not take it all with you.
Leave something behind of yourself.
It's so important.
And I want to thank you for listening.
I appreciate every one of our guests.
I'm sure you will too.
And I want you to have a nice day.
Think of the water.
Drink your water and think about your health.
You're in the Health Olympics with all of us.
Thank you for listening.
You have a nice day and you be well.
Join us next week for another edition of the Sharon Kleiner Hour.
Health, Environment and the Power of Water.
Mondays at 10 a.m. Pacific Time on the Voice America Variety Channel with an encore Wednesdays
at 12 noon Pacific Time on the Voice America Health and Wellness Channel.
Remember to visit Sharon's website at SharonKleinerHour.com.
[ Music ]